ITEM1A. RISKFACTORS

ExxonMobils financial and operatingresults are subject to a variety of risks inherent in the global oil, gas, andpetrochemical businesses. Many of these risk factors are not within theCompanys control and could adversely affect our business, our financial andoperating results, or our financial condition. These risk factors include:


Supply andDemand

The oil, gas, and petrochemical businesses arefundamentally commodity businesses. This means ExxonMobils operations andearnings may be significantly affected by changes in oil, gas, and petrochemicalprices and by changes in margins on refined products. Oil, gas, petrochemical,and product prices and margins in turn depend on local, regional, and globalevents or conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant commodity. Anymaterial decline in oil or natural gas prices could have a material adverseeffect on certain of the Companys operations, especially in the Upstreamsegment, financial condition, and proved reserves. On the other hand, amaterial increase in oil or natural gas prices could have a material adverseeffect on certain of the Companys operations, especially in the Downstream andChemical segments.
Economic conditions. The demand for energy and petrochemicals isgenerally linked closely with broad-based economic activities and levels ofprosperity. The occurrence of recessions or other periods of low or negativeeconomic growth will typically have a direct adverse impact on our results.Other factors that affect general economic conditions in the world or in amajor region, such as changes in population growth rates, periods of civilunrest, government austerity programs, or currency exchange rate fluctuations,can also impact the demand for energy and petrochemicals. Sovereign debtdowngrades, defaults, inability to access debt markets due to credit or legalconstraints, liquidity crises, the breakup or restructuring of fiscal,monetary, or political systems such as the European Union, and other events orconditions that impair the functioning of financial markets and institutionsalso pose risks to ExxonMobil, including risks to the safety of our financialassets and to the ability of our partners and customers to fulfill theircommitments to ExxonMobil.
Other demand-related factors. Other factors that may affect the demandfor oil, gas, and petrochemicals, and therefore impact our results, includetechnological improvements in energy efficiency; seasonal weather patterns;increased competitiveness of alternative energy sources; changes in technologyor consumer preferences that alter fuel choices, such as technological advancesin energy storage that make wind and solar more competitive for powergeneration or increased consumer demand for alternative fueled or electric vehicles;and broad-based changes in personal income levels.
Other supply-related factors. Commodity prices and margins also varydepending on a number of factors affecting supply. For example, increasedsupply from the development of new oil and gas supply sources and technologiesto enhance recovery from existing sources tend to reduce commodity prices tothe extent such supply increases are not offset by commensurate growth indemand. Similarly, increases in industry refining or petrochemicalmanufacturing capacity relative to demand tend to reduce margins on theaffected products. World oil, gas, and petrochemical supply levels can also beaffected by factors that reduce available supplies, such as adherence by countriesto OPEC production quotas and other agreements among sovereigns, and the occurrenceof wars, hostile actions, natural disasters, disruptions in competitorsoperations, logistics constraints or unexpected unavailability of distributionchannels that may disrupt supplies. Technological change can also alter therelative costs for competitors to find, produce, and refine oil and gas and tomanufacture petrochemicals.
Other market factors. ExxonMobils business results are alsoexposed to potential negative impacts due to changes in interest rates,inflation, currency exchange rates, and other local or regional marketconditions.


Government and Political Factors

ExxonMobils results can be adversely affected by politicalor regulatory developments affecting our operations.
Access limitations. A number of countries limit access totheir oil and gas resources, or may place resources off-limits from developmentaltogether. Restrictions on foreign investment in the oil and gas sector tendto increase in times of high commodity prices, when national governments mayhave less need of outside sources of private capital. Many countries alsorestrict the import or export of certain products based on point of origin.
Restrictions on doing business. ExxonMobil is subject to laws andsanctions imposed by the United States or by other jurisdictions where we dobusiness that may prohibit ExxonMobil or certain of its affiliates from doingbusiness in certain countries, or restricting the kind of business that may beconducted. Such restrictions may provide a competitive advantage to competitorswho may not be subject to comparable restrictions.
Lack of legal certainty. Some countries in which we do businesslack well-developed legal systems, or have not yet adopted, or may be unable tomaintain, clear regulatory frameworks for oil and gas development. Lack oflegal certainty exposes our operations to increased risk of adverse orunpredictable actions by government officials, and also makes it more difficultfor us to enforce our contracts. In some cases these risks can be partiallyoffset by agreements to arbitrate disputes in an international forum, but theadequacy of this remedy may still depend on the local legal system to enforcean award.
Regulatoryand litigation risks. Evenin countries with well-developed legal systems where ExxonMobil does business,we remain exposed to changes in law or interpretation of settled law (includingchanges that result from international treaties and accords) that couldadversely affect our results, such as: increases in taxes, duties, or government royalty rates (including retroactive claims); price controls; changes in environmental regulations or other laws that increase our cost of compliance or reduce or delay available business opportunities (including changes in laws related to offshore drilling operations, water use, methane emissions, hydraulic fracturing or plastics); adoption of regulations mandating efficiency standards, the use of alternative fuels or uncompetitive fuel components; adoption of government payment transparency regulations that could require us to disclose competitively sensitive commercial information, or that could cause us to violate the non-disclosure laws of other countries; and government actions to cancel contracts, re-denominate the official currency, renounce or default on obligations, renegotiate terms unilaterally, or expropriate assets. Legal remedies available to compensate us for expropriationor other takings may be inadequate. We also may be adversely affected by the outcome oflitigation, especially in countries such as the United States in which verylarge and unpredictable punitive damage awards may occur, or by governmentenforcement proceedings alleging non-compliance with applicable laws orregulations. Security concerns. Successful operation of particularfacilities or projects may be disrupted by civil unrest, acts of sabotage orterrorism, cybersecurity attacks, and other local security concerns. Such concernsmay require us to incur greater costs for security or to shut down operationsfor a period of time. Climate change and greenhouse gasrestrictions. Due toconcern over the risks of climate change, a number of countries have adopted,or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhousegas emissions. These include adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes,minimum renewable usage requirements, restrictive permitting, increasedefficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Suchpolicies could make our products more expensive, less competitive, lengthenproject implementation times, and reduce demand for hydrocarbons, as well asshift hydrocarbon demand toward relatively lower-carbon sources such as naturalgas. Current and pending greenhouse gas regulations or policies may alsoincrease our compliance costs, such as for monitoring or sequesteringemissions. Government sponsorship of alternativeenergy. Many governmentsare providing tax advantages and other subsidies to support alternative energysources or are mandating the use of specific fuels or technologies. Governmentsand others are also promoting research into new technologies to reduce the costand increase the scalability of alternative energy sources. We are conductingour own research both in-house and by working with more than 80 leadinguniversities around the world, including the Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, Princeton University, The University of Texas, and StanfordUniversity. Our research projects focus on developing algae-based biofuels,carbon capture and storage, breakthrough energy efficiency processes, advancedenergy-saving materials, and other technologies. For example, ExxonMobil isworking with Fuel Cell Energy Inc. to explore using carbonate fuel cells toeconomically capture CO 2 emissions from gas-fired power plants. Ourfuture results may depend in part on the success of our research efforts and onour ability to adapt and apply the strengths of our current business model toproviding the energy products of the future in a cost-competitive manner. SeeOperational and Other Factors below. Operational and Other Factors In addition to external economic and political factors, ourfuture business results also depend on our ability to manage successfully thosefactors that are at least in part within our control. The extent to which wemanage these factors will impact our performance relative to competition. Forprojects in which we are not the operator, we depend on the managementeffectiveness of one or more co-venturers whom we do not control. Exploration and development program. Our ability to maintain and grow our oiland gas production depends on the success of our exploration and developmentefforts. Among other factors, we must continuously improve our ability toidentify the most promising resource prospects and apply our project managementexpertise to bring discovered resources on line as scheduled and within budget. 3Project andportfolio management. Thelong-term success of ExxonMobils Upstream, Downstream, and Chemical businessesdepends on complex, longterm, capital intensive projects. These projectsin turn require a high degree of project management expertise to maximizeefficiency. Specific factors that can affect the performance of major projectsinclude our ability to: negotiate successfully with joint venturers, partners,governments, suppliers, customers, or others; model and optimize reservoir performance;develop markets for project outputs, whether through long-term contracts or thedevelopment of effective spot markets; manage changes in operating conditionsand costs, including costs of third party equipment or services such asdrilling rigs and shipping; prevent, to the extent possible, and respondeffectively to unforeseen technical difficulties that could delay projectstartup or cause unscheduled project downtime; and influence the performance ofproject operators where ExxonMobil does not perform that role. In addition tothe effective management of individual projects, ExxonMobils success,including our ability to mitigate risk and provide attractive returns to shareholders,depends on our ability to successfully manage our overall portfolio, includingdiversification among types and locations of our projects. The term project as used in this report can refer to avariety of different activities and does not necessarily have the same meaningas in any government payment transparency reports. Operational efficiency. An important component of ExxonMobilscompetitive performance, especially given the commoditybased nature ofmany of our businesses, is our ability to operate efficiently, including ourability to manage expenses and improve production yields on an ongoing basis.This requires continuous management focus, including technology improvements,cost control, productivity enhancements, regular reappraisal of our assetportfolio, and the recruitment, development, and retention of high caliberemployees. Research and development and technologicalchange. To maintain ourcompetitive position, especially in light of the technological nature of ourbusinesses and the need for continuous efficiency improvement, ExxonMobilsresearch and development organizations must be successful and able to adapt toa changing market and policy environment, including developing technologies tohelp reduce greenhouse gas emissions. To remain competitive we must alsocontinuously adapt and capture the benefits of new and emerging technologies. Safety, business controls, andenvironmental risk management. Our results depend on managements ability to minimize theinherent risks of oil, gas, and petrochemical operations, to controleffectively our business activities, and to minimize the potential for humanerror. We apply rigorous management systems and continuous focus on workplacesafety and avoiding spills or other adverse environmental events. For example,we work to minimize spills through a combined program of effective operationsintegrity management, ongoing upgrades, key equipment replacements, andcomprehensive inspection and surveillance. Similarly, we are implementingcost-effective new technologies and adopting new operating practices to reduceair emissions, not only in response to government requirements but also toaddress community priorities. We also maintain a disciplined framework ofinternal controls and apply a controls management system for monitoringcompliance with this framework. Substantial liabilities and other adverseimpacts could result if our management systems and controls do not function asintended. Cybersecurity. ExxonMobil is regularly subject toattempted cybersecurity disruptions from a variety of threat actors includingstate-sponsored actors. ExxonMobils defensive preparedness includesmulti-layered technological capabilities for prevention and detection ofcybersecurity disruptions; non-technological measures such as threatinformation sharing with governmental and industry groups; internal trainingand awareness campaigns including routine testing of employee awareness and anemphasis on resiliency including business response and recovery. If themeasures we are taking to protect against cybersecurity disruptions prove to beinsufficient, ExxonMobil as well as our customers, employees, or third partiescould be adversely affected. Cybersecurity disruptions could cause physicalharm to people or the environment; damage or destroy assets; compromise businesssystems; result in proprietary information being altered, lost, or stolen; resultin employee, customer, or third-party information being compromised; or otherwisedisrupt our business operations. We could incur significant costs to remedy theeffects of a major cybersecurity disruption in addition to costs in connectionwith resulting regulatory actions, litigation or reputational harm. Preparedness. Our operations may be disrupted by severeweather events, natural disasters, human error, and similar events. Forexample, hurricanes may damage our offshore production facilities or coastalrefining and petrochemical plants in vulnerable areas. Our facilities aredesigned, constructed, and operated to withstand a variety of extreme climaticand other conditions, with safety factors built in to cover a number ofengineering uncertainties, including those associated with wave, wind, andcurrent intensity, marine ice flow patterns, permafrost stability, storm surgemagnitude, temperature extremes, extreme rainfall events, and earthquakes. Ourconsideration of changing weather conditions and inclusion of safety factors indesign covers the engineering uncertainties that climate change and otherevents may potentially introduce. Our ability to mitigate the adverse impactsof these events depends in part upon the effectiveness of our robust facilityengineering as well as our rigorous disaster preparedness and response andbusiness continuity planning. 4Insurance limitations. The ability of the Corporation to insure against many of therisks it faces as described in this Item 1A is limited by the capacity of theapplicable insurance markets, which may not be sufficient. Competition.
