Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risk factors are not the only risks we face. Our business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. If any of these risks or other risks that are yet unknown were to occur, our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as the value of an investment in our common stock could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Industry Our operating results, our ability to execute on our strategy and the carrying value of our assets are exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices. The oil and gas business is a commodity business. Our revenues, operating results and future rate of growth are highly dependent on the prices we receive for crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and NGLs. Such prices can fluctuate widely depending upon global events or conditions that affect supply and demand, most of which are out of our control. In early 2020 global oil demand decreased precipitously alongside global COVID-19 economic shutdowns. Although global oil demand and global oil prices improved through 2021, the global economic recovery remains uncertain. Our industry will continue to be exposed to the effects of changing commodity prices given the volatility in commodity price drivers and the worldwide political and economic environment generally, as well as continued uncertainty caused by armed hostilities in various oil-producing regions around the globe. Lower crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and NGL prices may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating income, cash flows and liquidity, and may also affect the amount of dividends we elect to declare and pay on our common stock and the amount of shares we elect to acquire as part of the share repurchase program and the timing of such acquisitions. Lower prices may also limit the amount of reserves we can produce economically, thus adversely affecting our proved reserves and reserve replacement ratio and accelerating the reduction in our existing reserve levels as we continue production from upstream fields. Prolonged depressed crude oil prices may affect certain decisions related to our operations, including decisions to reduce capital investments or curtail operated production. Significant reductions in crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and NGL prices could also require us to reduce our capital expenditures, impair the carrying value of our assets or discontinue the classification of certain assets as proved reserves. In the past three years, we recognized several impairments, which are described in Note 7 . If commodity prices decrease relative to their current levels, and as we continue to optimize our investments and exercise capital flexibility, it is reasonably likely we could incur future impairments to long-lived assets used in operations, investment in nonconsolidated entities accounted for under the equity method and unproved properties. Although it is not reasonably practicable to quantify the impact of any future impairments or estimated change to our unit-of-production rates at this time, our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result. Our business has been, and will continue to be, adversely affected by the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures put in place to address it have negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains, reduced global demand for oil and gas and created significant volatility and disruption of financial and commodity markets. Over the course of the pandemic, public health officials have recommended or mandated certain precautions to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, including limiting non- essential gatherings of people, ceasing all non-essential travel and issuing social or physical distancing guidelines, shelter-in-place orders and mandatory closures or reductions in capacity for non-essential businesses. Although some of these limitations and mandates have been relaxed in certain jurisdictions, others have been reinstated in areas that have experienced a resurgence of COVID-19 cases and there is no guarantee restrictions will not be reimposed in the future. Despite the increased availability of vaccines in certain jurisdictions, the COVID -19 pandemic may continue or worsen during the upcoming months, including as a result of the emergence of more infectious variants of the virus, vaccine hesitancy or increased business and social activities, which may cause governmental authorities to reinstate restrictions. As a result, the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemicRisk Factors  21 ConocoPhillips 2021 10-K remains uncertain and will depend on the severity, location and duration of the effects and spread of the disease, the effectiveness and duration of actions taken by authorities to contain the virus or treat its effect, the availability and effectiveness of vaccines or other treatments, and how quickly and to what extent economic conditions improve. See our Human Capital Management section within Item 1 and 2Business and Properties , for additional information on how we have been impacted and the steps we have taken in response. Our business is likely to continue to be further negatively impacted by the COVID -19 pandemic. These impacts could include but are not limited to: Reduced demand for our products as a result of reductions in travel and commerce, whether related to mandated restrictions or otherwise; Disruptions in our supply chain due in part to scrutiny or embargoing of shipments from infected areas or invocation of force majeure clauses in commercial contracts due to restrictions imposed as a result of the global response to the pandemic; Failure of third-parties on which we rely, including our suppliers, contract manufacturers, contractors, joint venture partners and external business partners, to meet their obligations to the company, or significant disruptions in their ability to do so, which may be caused by their own financial or operational difficulties or restrictions imposed in response to the disease outbreak; Reduced workforce productivity caused by, but not limited to, illness, travel restrictions, quarantine, or government mandates; Increased challenges in retention of personnel caused by vaccine hesitancy and the resistance of some in our workforce to comply with workplace protocols necessary to ensure the health and safety of our workforce and minimize disruptions to the business, such as vaccine and testing requirements, or the use of personal protective equipment; and Voluntary or involuntary curtailments to support oil prices or alleviate storage shortages for our products. Any of these factors, or other cascading effects of the COVID-19 pandemic that are not currently foreseeable, could materially increase our costs, negatively impact our revenues and damage our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity position. Despite the rollout of vaccines, the pandemic continues to progress and evolve, and the full extent and duration of any such impacts cannot be predicted at this time because of the sweeping impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on daily life around the world and a lack of certainty as to if or when conditions will return to pre-COVID levels. Unless we successfully develop resources, the scope of our business will decline, resulting in an adverse impact to our business. As we produce crude oil and natural gas from our existing portfolio, the amount of our remaining reserves declines. If we are not successful in replacing the crude oil and natural gas we produce with good prospects for future organic opportunities or through acquisitions, our business will decline. In addition, our ability to successfully develop our reserves is dependent on a number of factors, including our ability to obtain and renew rights to develop and produce hydrocarbons; our success at reservoir optimization; our ability to bring long-lead time, capital intensive projects to completion on budget and on schedule; and our ability to efficiently and profitably operate mature properties. If we are not successful in developing the resources in our portfolio, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The exploration and production of oil and gas is a highly comp etitive industry. The exploration and production of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and NGLs is a highly competitive business. We compete with private, public and state-owned companies in all facets of the exploration and production business, including to locate and obtain new sources of supply and to produce crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and NGLs in an efficient, cost-effective manner. We must compete for the materials, equipment, services, employees and other personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) necessary to conduct our business. Some of our competitors are larger and have greater resources than we do, or may have established strategic long-Risk Factors  ConocoPhillips 2021 10-K 22 term positions or strong governmental or other relationships in countries or areas in which we operate, or may be willing to incur a higher level of risk than we are willing to incur to obtain potential sources of supply. As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain respects, such as in accessing the necessary materials, equipment, services, resources and personnel. In addition, we may be at a competitive disadvantage when competing with state-owned companies if they are motivated by political or other factors in making their business decisions, with less emphasis on financial returns. If we are not successful in our competition for new reserves, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any material change in the factors and assumptions underlying our estimates of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and NGL reserves could impair the quantity and value of those reserves. Our proved reserve information included in this annual report represents managements best estimates based on assumptions, as of a specified date, of the volumes to be recovered from underground accumulations of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and NGLs. Such volumes cannot be directly measured and the estimates and underlying assumptions used by management are subject to substantial risk and uncertainty. Any material changes in the factors and assumptions underlying our estimates of these items could result in a material negative impact to the volume of reserves reported or could cause us to incur impairment expenses on property associated with the production of those reserves. Future reserve revisions could also result from changes in, among other things, governmental regulation. Our business may be adversely affected by price controls, government-imposed limitations on production or exports of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and NGLs, or the unavailability of adequate gathering, processing, compression, transportation, and pipeline facilities and equipment for our production of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and NGLs. As discussed herein, our operations are subject to extensive governmental regulations. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas and NGL wells below actual production capacity. Similarly, in response to increased domestic energy costs, circumstances determined to be in the economic interest of the country, or a declared national emergency, the U.S. government could restrict the export of our products which would adversely impact our domestic business. Because legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, we cannot predict whether future restrictions on our business may be enacted or become applicable to us. Our ability to sell and deliver the crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, NGLs and LNG that we produce also depends on the availability, proximity, and capacity of gathering, processing, compression, transportation and pipeline facilities and equipment, as well as any necessary diluents to prepare our crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, NGLs and LNG for transport. Furthermore, we rely on there being sufficient facilities and takeaway capacity to support our ambitions to reduce routine flaring. The facilities, equipment and diluents we rely on may be temporarily unavailable to us due to market conditions, extreme weather events, regulatory reasons, mechanical reasons or other factors or conditions, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, in certain newer plays, the capacity of necessary facilities, equipment and diluents may not be sufficient to accommodate production from existing and new wells, and construction and permitting delays, permitting costs and regulatory or other constraints could limit or delay the construction, manufacture or other acquisition of new facilities and equipment. If any facilities, equipment or diluents, or any of the transportation methods and channels that we rely on become unavailable for any period of time, we may incur increased costs to transport our crude oil, bitumen, natural gas, NGLs and LNG for sale or we may be forced to curtail our production of crude oil, bitumen, natural gas or NGLs.
Risk Factors  23 ConocoPhillips 2021 10-K Our investments in joint ventures decrease our ability to manage risk. We conduct many of our operations through joint ventures in which we may share control with our joint venture partners. There is a risk our joint venture participants may at any time have economic, business or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with those of the joint venture or us, or our joint venture partners may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone. Failure by us, or an entity in which we have a joint venture interest, to adequately manage the risks associated with any operations, acquisitions or dispositions could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and operations. Our operations present hazards and risks that require significant and continuous oversight. The scope and nature of our operations present a variety of significant hazards and risks, including operational hazards and risks such as explosions, fires, product spills, severe weather, geological events, labor disputes, geopolitical tensions, armed hostilities, terrorist or piracy attacks, sabotage, civil unrest or cyberattacks. Our operations are subject to the additional hazards of pollution, toxic substances and other environmental hazards and risks. Offshore activities may pose incrementally greater risks because of complex subsurface conditions such as higher reservoir pressures, water depths and metocean conditions. All such hazards could result in loss of human life, significant property and equipment damage, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, substantial losses to us and damage to our reputation. Our business and operations may be disrupted if we do not respond, or are perceived not to respond, in an appropriate manner to any of these hazards and risks or any other major crisis or if we are unable to efficiently restore or replace affected operational components and capacity. Further, our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all resulting losses, and the cost to obtain adequate coverage may increase for us in the future. Legal and Regulatory Risks We expect to continue to incur substantial capital expenditures and operating costs as a result of our compliance with existing and future environmental laws and regulations. Our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, which are expected to continue to have an increasing impact on our operations. For a description of the most significant of these environmental laws and regulations, see the ContingenciesEnvironmental and ContingenciesClimate Change sections of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These laws and regulations continue to increase in both number and complexity and affect our operations with respect to, among other things: Permits required in connection with exploration, drilling, production and other activities, including those issued by national, subnational, and local authorities; The discharge of pollutants into the environment; Emissions into the atmosphere, such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur dioxide, mercury and GHG emissions, including methane; Carbon taxes; The handling, use, storage, transportation, disposal and cleanup of hazardous materials and hazardous and nonhazardous wastes ; The dismantlement, abandonment and restoration of historic properties and facilities at the end of their useful lives; and Exploration and production activities in certain areas, such as offshore environments, arctic fields, oil sands reservoirs and unconventional plays. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial capital, operating and maintenance, and remediation expenditures as a result of these laws and regulations. In addition, to the extent these expenditures are assumed by a buyer as a result of a disposition, it may result in our incurring substantial costs if the buyer is unable to satisfy these obligations. Any failure by us to comply with existing or future laws, regulations and other requirements could result in administrative or civil penalties, criminal fines, other enforcement actions or third-party litigationRisk Factors  ConocoPhillips 2021 10-K 24 against us. To the extent these expenditures, as with all costs, are not ultimately reflected in the prices of our products and services, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods could be materially adversely affected. Existing and future laws, regulations and internal initiatives relating to global climate change, such as limitations on GHG emissions may impact or limit our business plans, result in significant expenditures, promote alternative uses of energy or reduce demand for our products. Continuing political and social attention to the issue of global climate change has resulted in both existing and pending international agreements and national, regional or local legislation and regulatory measures to limit GHG emissions, such as cap and trade regimes, specific emission standards, carbon taxes, restrictive permitting, increased fuel efficiency standards and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. Although we may support many of these legislative and regulatory measures, how and when they are enacted could result in a material adverse effect to our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. For example, in November 2021, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency published a Proposed Rule that would revise the regulations governing the emission of GHG and volatile organic compounds from new oil and gas production facilities, and emission guidelines for states to use when revising Clean Air Act implementation plans to limit GHG emissions from existing oil and gas facilities. Although the company supports the direct federal regulation of methane from new and existing sources, the final form and substance of any regulations are not currently known and could result in additional capital expenditures and compliance, operating and maintenance costs, any of which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Additionally, in 2021, the U.S. joined the international community at the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP26). At the conclusion of COP26, the U.S. and nearly 200 other counties agreed to the Glasgow Climate Pact, committing to revisiting and strengthening their current emissions targets to 2030 in 2022 and finalizing the outstanding elements of the Paris Agreement. In addition, our operations continue in countries around the world which are party to the Paris Agreement. The implementation of current agreements and regulatory measures, as well as any future agreements or measures addressing climate change and GHG emissions, may adversely impact the demand for our products, impose taxes on our products or operations or require us to purchase emission credits or reduce emission of GHGs from our operations. As a result, we may experience declines in commodity prices or incur substantial capital expenditures and compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs, any of which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In September 2021, we announced an improvement to our Paris-aligned climate risk framework, whereby we committed to an improvement to our targets for reduc ing our scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity on both a gross operated and net equity basis and reaffirmed our commitment to advocate for the reduction of scope 3 emissions through our support for a U.S. carbon price. Compliance with, and achievement of, climate change-related internal initiatives such as the foregoing may increase costs, require us to purchase emission credits, or limit or impact our business plans. If we are not successful in select internal initiatives, we may be adversely affected and potentially need to reduce economic end-of-field life of certain assets and impair associated net book value. Increasing attention to global climate change has also resulted in pressure from and upon stockholders, financial institutions and/or financial markets to modify their relationships with oil and gas companies and to limit investments and/or funding to such companies. For example, Harvard University announced in September 2021 that it will stop investing its $42 billion endowment in fossil fuels and will let its current investments expire without renewal. As public pressure continues to mount, our access to capital on terms we find favorable (if it is available at all) may be limited and our costs may increase, our reputation could be damaged or our business and results of operations may be otherwise adversely affected. Furthermore, increasing attention to global climate change has resulted in an increased likelihood of governmental investigations and private litigation, which could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business. Beginning in 2017, cities, counties, governments and other entities in several states in the U.S. have filed lawsuits against oil and gas companies, including ConocoPhillips, seeking compensatory damages and equitable relief toRisk Factors  25 ConocoPhillips 2021 10-K abate alleged climate change impacts. Additional lawsuits with similar allegations are expected to be filed. The amounts claimed by plaintiffs are unspecified and the legal and factual issues involved in these cases are unprecedented. ConocoPhillips believes these lawsuits are factually and legally meritless and are an inappropriate vehicle to address the challenges associated with climate change and will vigorously defend against such lawsuits. The ultimate outcome and impact to us cannot be predicted with certainty, and we could incur substantial legal costs associated with defending these and similar lawsuits in the future. We could also receive lawsuits alleging a failure or lack of diligence to meet our publicly stated ESG goals, so called greenwashing cases. In addition, although we design and operate our business operations to accommodate expected climatic conditions, to the extent there are significant changes in the earths climate, such as more severe or frequent weather conditions in the markets where we operate or the areas where our assets reside, we could incur increased expenses, our operations and supply chain could be adversely impacted, and demand for our products could fall. For more information on legislation or precursors for possible regulation relating to global climate change that affect or could affect our operations and a description of the companys response, see the ContingenciesClimate Change section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Domestic and worldwide political and economic developments could damage our operations and materially reduce our profitability and cash flows. Actions of the U.S., state, local and foreign governments, through sanctions, tax and other legislation, executive order and commercial restrictions, could reduce our operating profitability both in the U.S. and abroad. In certain locations, restrictions on our operations; leasing restrictions; special taxes or tax assessments; and payment transparency regulations that could require us to disclose competitively sensitive information or might cause us to violate non-disclosure laws of other countries have been imposed or proposed by governments or certain interest groups. For example, in 2020 a ballot initiative known as the Fair Share Act was proposed in the state of Alaska, which, if enacted would have increased the states share of production revenues and required producers to publicly disclose additional financial information. Although ultimately defeated, similar initiatives may be proposed and may be successful in the future. In addition, we may face regulatory changes in the U.S. including, but not limited to, the enactment of tax law changes that adversely affect the fossil fuel industry, new methane emissions standards, restrictive flaring requirements, and more stringent environmental impact studies and reviews. We also cannot rule out the possibility of similar regulatory shifts and attendant cost and market access implications in other international jurisdictions. One area subject to significant political and regulatory activity is the use of hydraulic fracturing, an essential completion technique that facilitates production of oil and natural gas otherwise trapped in lower permeability rock formations. A range of local, state, federal and national laws and regulations currently govern or, in some hydraulic fracturing operations, prohibit hydraulic fracturing in some jurisdictions. Although hydraulic fracturing has been conducted safely for many decades, a number of new laws, regulations and permitting requirements are under consideration which could result in increased costs, operating restrictions, operational delays or could limit the ability to develop oil and natural gas resources. Certain jurisdictions in which we operate have adopted or are considering regulations that could impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure or other regulatory requirements on hydraulic fracturing or other oil and natural gas operations, including subsurface water disposal. In addition, certain interest groups have also proposed ballot initiatives and constitutional amendments designed to restrict oil and natural gas development generally and hydraulic fracturing in particular. In the event that ballot initiatives, local, state, or national restrictions or prohibitions are adopted and result in more stringent limitations on the production and development of oil and natural gas in areas where we conduct operations, we may incur significant costs to comply with such requirements or may experience delays or curtailment in the permitting or pursuit of exploration, development or production activities. Such compliance costs and delays, curtailments, limitations or prohibitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity.
Risk Factors  ConocoPhillips 2021 10-K 26 The U.S. government can also prevent or restrict us from doing business in foreign countries. These restrictions and those of foreign governments have in the past limited our ability to operate in, or gain access to, opportunities in various countries. Actions by host governments, such as the expropriation of our oil assets by the Venezuelan government, have affected operations significantly in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Changes in domestic and international policies and regulations may affect our ability to collect payments such as those pertaining to the settlement with Petrleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PDVSA ) or the ICSID Award against the Government of Venezuela; or to obtain or maintain licenses or permits, including those necessary for drilling and development of wells in various locations. Similarly, the declaration of a climate emergency could result in actions to limit exports of our products and other restrictions. Local political and economic factors in international markets could have a material adverse effect on us. Approximately 38 percent of our hydrocarbon production was derived from production outside the U.S. in 2021, and 29 percent of our proved reserves, as of December 31, 2021, were located outside the U.S. We are subject to risks associated with operations in both domestic and international markets, including changes in foreign governmental policies relating to crude oil, natural gas, bitumen, NGLs or LNG pricing and taxation, other political, economic or diplomatic developments (including the macro effects of international trade policies and disputes), potentially disruptive geopolitical conditions, and international monetary and currency rate fluctuations. Restrictions on production of oil and gas could increase to the extent governments view such measures as a viable approach for pursuing national and global energy and climate policies. In addition, some countries where we operate lack a fully independent judiciary system. This, coupled with changes in foreign law or policy, results in a lack of legal certainty that exposes our operations to increased risks, including increased difficulty in enforcing our agreements in those jurisdictions and increased risks of adverse actions by local government authorities, such as expropriations. Other Risk Factors Facing our Business or Operations We may need additional capital in the future, and it may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We have historically relied primarily upon cash generated by our operations to fund our operations and strategy; however, we have also relied from time to time on access to the debt and equity capital markets for funding. There can be no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In addition, although we anticipate we will be able to repay our existing indebtedness when it matures or in accordance with our stated plans, there can be no assurance we will be able to do so. Our ability to obtain additional financing or refinance our existing indebtedness when it matures or in accordance with our plans, will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance, investor sentiment and our ability to incur additional debt in compliance with agreements governing our then-outstanding debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations or raise additional capital for any reason, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, we are regularly evaluated by the major rating agencies based on a number of factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the oil and gas industry generally. We and other industry companies have had their ratings reduced in the past due to negative commodity price outlooks. Any downgrade in our credit rating or announcement that our credit rating is under review for possible downgrade could increase the cost associated with any additional indebtedness we incur.
Risk Factors  27 ConocoPhillips 2021 10-K Our business may be adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults under our contracts with, third-parties with whom we do business. The operation of our business requires us to engage in transactions with numerous counterparties operating in a variety of industries, including other companies operating in the oil and gas industry. These counterparties may default on their obligations to us as a result of operational failures or a lack of liquidity, or for other reasons, including bankruptcy. Market speculation about the credit quality of these counterparties, or their ability to continue performing on their existing obligations, may also exacerbate any operational difficulties or liquidity issues they are experiencing, particularly as it relates to other companies in the oil and gas industry as a result of the volatility in commodity prices. Any default by any of our counterparties may result in our inability to perform our obligations under agreements we have made with third-parties or may otherwise adversely affect our business or results of operations. In addition, our rights against any of our counterparties as a result of a default may not be adequate to compensate us for the resulting harm caused or may not be enforceable at all in some circumstances. We may also be forced to incur additional costs as we attempt to enforce any rights we have against a defaulting counterparty, which could further adversely impact our results of operations. Our ability to execute our capital return program is subject to certain considerations. In December 2021, we initiated a three -tier capital return program that consists of our ordinary dividend, share repurchases and a quarterly variable return of cash (VROC). Ordinary dividends are authorized and determined by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion and depend upon a number of factors, including: Cash available for distribution; Our results of operations and anticipated future results of operations; Our financial condition, especially in relation to the anticipated future capital needs of our properties; The level of distributions paid by comparable companies; Our operating expenses; and Other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. VROC distributions are also authorized and determined by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion and depend upon a number of factors, including: The anticipated level of distributions required to meet our capital returns commitment; Forward prices; Balance sheet cash; Total yield; and Other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. We expect to continue to pay a quarterly ordinary dividend to our stockholders. In addition, based on the current environment, we anticipate also paying a quarterly VROC to our shareholders staggered from the ordinary dividend payment, resulting in up to eight cash distributions to shareholders throughout the year; however, the amount of the VROC is variable and will depend upon the above factors, and our Board of Directors may determine not to pay a VROC in a quarter or may cease declaring a VROC at any time. In addition, our Board of Directors may reduce our ordinary dividend or cease declaring dividends at any time, including if it determines that our net cash provided by operating activities, after deducting capital expenditures and investments, are not sufficient to pay our desired levels of dividends to our stockholders or to pay dividends to our stockholders at all.
Risk Factors  ConocoPhillips 2021 10-K 28 Additionally, as of December 31, 2021, $10.9 billion of repurchase authority remained of the $25 billion share repurchase program our Board of Directors had authorized. Our share repurchase program does not obligate us to acquire a specific number of shares during any period, and our decision to commence, discontinue or resume repurchases in any period will depend on the same factors that our Board of Directors may consider when declaring dividends, among others. In the past we have suspended our share repurchase program in response to market downturns, including as a result of the oil market downturn that began in early 2020, and we may do so again in the future. Any downward revision in the amount of our ordinary dividend or VROC or the volume of shares we purchase under our share repurchase program could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. There are substantial risks with any acquisitions or divestitures we have completed or that we may choose to undertake. We regularly review our portfolio and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest noncore assets or businesses. We may not be able to complete these transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. Even if we do complete such transactions, our cash flow from operations may be adversely impacted or otherwise the transactions may not result in the benefits anticipated due to various risks, including, but not limited to (i) the failure of the acquired assets or businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, including risk of impairment; (ii) the inability to dispose of noncore assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions; and (iii) the discovery of unknown and unforeseen liabilities or other issues related to any acquisition for which contractual protections are inadequate or we lack insurance or indemnities, including environmental liabilities, or with regard to divested assets or businesses, claims by purchasers to whom we have provided contractual indemnification. In addition, we may face difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of any acquired assets or businesses. For example, we completed two major acquisitions in 2021, including the acquisition of Concho in January and the acquisition of the Shell Permian assets in December. Combined, these transactions added approximately 800,000 net acres, thereby significantly increasing our unconventional position and operations in the Permian. We may still encounter difficulties integrating the acquired assets into our business. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations and technologies and systems that must be integrated in connection with the transactions and the integration of the acquired assets. It is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of our ongoing business; inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies; unexpected integration issues; higher than expected integration costs and an overall post-completion integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated. We have been and will be required to devote management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations. Any delays encountered in the integration process could have an adverse effect on our revenues or on our level of expenses or capital investment and operating results, which may adversely affect the value of our common stock. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses. Although we expect that the strategic benefits, and additional income, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the acquired assets, may offset incremental transaction-related costs over time, if we are not able to adequately address integration challenges.
Risk Factors  29 ConocoPhillips 2021 10-K Our technologies, systems and networks may be subject to cyberattacks. Our business, like others within the oil and gas industry, has become increasingly dependent on digital technologies, some of which are managed by third -party service providers on whom we rely to help us collect, host or process information. Among other activities, we rely on digital technology to estimate oil and gas reserves, process and record financial and operating data, analyze seismic and drilling information and communicate with employees and third-parties. As a result, we face various cybersecurity threats such as attempts to gain unauthorized access to, or control of, sensitive information about our operations and our employees, attempts to render our data or systems (or those of third-parties with whom we do business, including third-party cloud and IT service providers) corrupted or unusable, threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure as well as those of third-parties with whom we do business, including third-party cloud and IT service providers, and attempted cyber terrorism. In addition, computers control oil and gas production, processing equipment and distribution systems globally and are necessary to deliver our production to market. A disruption, failure, or a cyberattack of these operating systems, or of the networks , software and infrastructure on which they rely, many of which are not owned or operated by us, could damage critical production, distribution or storage assets, delay or prevent delivery to markets, make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions, or negatively impact public health or safety, economic security, or national security. Although we have experienced occasional cybersecurity incidents, none have had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation. As cyberattacks have continued to evolve, we have become subject to new government-imposed security requirements to implement specific mitigation measures to protect against ransomware attacks and other known threats to information and operations technology. In response, we must continually expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerabilities detected. Our implementation of reasonable security procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for our information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased costs. Despite our ongoing investments in security resources, talent and business practices, we are unable to assure that any security measures will be completely effective. If our systems and infrastructure were to be breached, damaged or disrupted, we could be subject to serious negative consequences, including disruption of our operations, damage to our reputation, a loss of counterparty trust, reimbursement or other costs, increased compliance costs, litigation exposure and legal liability or regulatory fines, penalties or intervention. In addition, we have exposure to cybersecurity incidents and the negative impacts of such incidents related to our data and proprietary information housed on third-party IT systems, including the cloud. Any of these could materially and adversel y affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, and any of the foregoing can be exacerbated by a delay or failure to detect a cybersecurity incident or the full extent of such incident notwithstanding reasonable security procedures and controls. The prevalence of remote working during the pandemic has introduced additional cybersecurity risk. Although we have business continuity plans in place, our operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our systems and infrastructure that support our business. While we continue to evolve and modify our business continuity plans, there can be no assurance that they will be completely effective in avoiding disruption and business impacts. Further, our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all resulting losses, and the cost to obtain adequate coverage may increase for us in the future.
